You two are hungry.
It's a big day.
We're gonna kill God.
Come again?
Christian God is real.
He's been asleep for thousands of years.
We're gonna sneak up there and kill him.
Mob style.
Just whack his ass.
Can I kill God?
Stop summer.
Beth, do you hear this?
Sweetie, don't get all worked up
before your job interview.
Job interview?
Yes.
Is that so hard to believe?
Actually, yeah.
Something's off.
No!
Ah!
Shit!
Hunt me. Hunt me. Hunt me.
Somebody hunt me.
Don't hunt him to completion.
Hunt me.
Oh, shit.
Everyone start packing.
No time to explain.
Rick?
Dad, what's wrong?
Someone just killed the Decoy family.
I, Mr. Always, want to be hunted.
Yes, and how interesting did you think that would stay?
You made clones of us?
Decoys, Morty.
Very different.
Very different, sweetie.
Different how?
Yeah, Dad.
Different how.
A lot of people out there want a piece of this, sweetie.
I'm cool and it makes them feel bad.
So, you know, after that trouble with Spacebeth,
I made passable copies of the family
and placed them around the country as a buffer zone to protect...
But why does he always want to be hunted?
It's not important right now, Dad.
Sure, guys.
Rick can make secret decoys of the family
and place them all around the country,
but fuck me if I have questions
about the Starfish Man in a Target suit.
So thankful this is my Saturday.
Why was he in that cryopod?
The cryopod is what confuses you, Jerry.
Can't you see we've moved on to higher states?
Well, I don't see any stakes at all.
Ah, shit.
Guess we'll just be saying chow-bella to our deposit then.
Shut up and pack, Jerry.
Squids just killed the decoy family.
Decoy family?
Is this what you wanted to get out of town?
You think I'd lie to you about why we're on vacation, Morty?
I wouldn't lie to you.
Well, that's a lie.
Huh.
So someone out there is trying to kill us?
Someone's always trying to kill us.
That's what the decoys are for.
They go on fun, self-contained, terrestrial adventures,
and...
Take bullets meant for us.
Shit.
Ah!
No!
Oh, shit.
Decoy family.
I think Jabba's still outside.
What's a decoy family?
Hard concept, Morty.
Hard concept.
I've never really cracked it if I'm being honest.
Decided it was maybe better as a kind of kinetic mislead
for another special episode.
Cool.
We now return to
Wenwolf.
Whoa, a time-traveling wolf?
Count me in.
Yeah, I never thought of the where
and werewolf like who, what, when, and where.
Clever wordplay.
Wenwolf.
Dracula.
You know why I'm here.
I'm safe here, Ian.
Christianity hasn't been invented yet.
Crosses are just baby tees to me now.
I got out.
Please.
Don't invite me back, Ian.
Huh, kind of mucked it up with this Dracula stuff.
You're right.
It shows a lack of faith in their core concept.
I'd much rather watch Wenwolf go to the 20s
and invest in the stock market, but then eat people.
Yeah.
Look, if you really want to know what happened to Beth's mom,
it, well, Squid Aliens just killed the decoy family.
Decoy family?
You made more clones?
Clones are like 32% of all sci-fi, sweetie.
You don't get to own clones.
Yes, I made some decoys.
They're exactly like us with a few tweaks and a backdoor shutdown.
Did you just get hard creating sentient life?
Actually, I get hard protecting my family.
Oh, gross.
Yeah, now everyone gets killer doppelgangers.
That's a cool deal.
The decoys are harmless, Beth.
Grandpa Rick, do the decoys know their decoys?
They wouldn't be very good decoys if they did, some some.
So they think they're us?
That's the deal.
How do you know we're not decoys?
Oh, my God, we're decoys.
Oh, God, we might not be real.
We might be decoys.
Morty, quick.
What do I do?
My failsafe, Morty.
My final secret failsafe.
It proves I'm real.
You have to help me.
I never joke about this.
There's a barcode, Morty.
A barcode on the interior of my left-ass jeep.
What?
Morty, please, I'm begging you.
I'm not looking at your ass.
God damn it.
Just tell me if I'm real.
Morty, do it.
Gross.
Dad.
Summer, you fucking idiot.
We're not decoys.
Why did I get punished?
A, decoys don't build decoys.
And B, you think the mere suggestion I'm fake would break me?
Christ, I'm not your mom.
Fuck off.
Jeez, these guys really want to kill me bad.
All right, here's the plan.
We're going to hide out with a decoy family, and when these squids show up, we jump their
asses.
Jerry, come on.
Family emergency.
A bigger emergency than my lemon squares not setting?
They're gluten-free, sugar-free, and lemon-free.
I think you got the wrong house, bro.
Analysis mode, password 80085.
Kind of expected a funnier password.
I didn't plan on showing them off.
Damn, like Westworld.
Yes, Morty, like Westworld, but don't fuck them.
Summer.
Whatever, creep.
I'm going to see how accurate you got my room.
Rick, when you say you made an exact replica of the house, did you mean like, you know,
an exact replica?
I know about the O70 t-shirt, Morty.
You know you can use tissues, right?
I can't finish without it.
So you do know what a happy family looks like.
I know what a fake one looks like.
Uh, Rick?
What?
Did you use this house to make decoys, too?
Morty, why the fuck would I do that?
You think I'd go somewhere else to...
Okay, well, I am now less worried about the squids.
Isolate head at normal processing.
What the fuck do you think you're doing down there?
You're making decoys?
Wait, how do you...
Oh, God, Summer was right.
Everyone in the car.
You said decoys didn't make decoys.
And usually they don't, but again, it's nothing to worry about because decoys are harmless.
Just have to, you know, visit the rest and terminate the program.
Terminate? They're alive, Dad.
And at some point, they won't be. That's how existing works.
What are you going to save every stray cat?
No, but I can resist making more of them in a lab.
Look, save the empathy.
It's more termite infestation than Blade Runner.
I still think we're decoys.
You just want an excuse to stop trying.
Yeah, and?
Ooh, there's a handsome fellow.
Uh-oh.
I thought you made them harmless.
I don't remember making this one.
Oh, hi, Rick. Family. Me.
Hey, when did you all leave?
Analysis mode 80085.
Hm?
Nothing, buddy. You got to stop with all that coffee.
It's making you loopy.
Happy analysis mode.
Happy analysis mode to you too.
Think you got the wrong house, bro.
Analysis mode, password 800...
You think I'm a decoy?
How do you know about the decoys?
They were my idea.
Well, now I know you're pranking me.
Analysis mode, password 8 equals sign.
Equal sign, capital D.
Hide.
What?
Wow, like X-Machina.
Yes, Morty, like X-Machina, but don't f*** them.
Summer!
Whatever, weirdo.
I'm going to see how wrong you've got my room.
So you do know what a loving family looks like.
Simulated one, yes.
Why are we hiding?
He thinks he's me, and I was about to start terminating decoys.
But we're not decoys.
Sure, tell him that.
Rick, did you make decoys here too?
Morty, what reason could I have for...
What the...
Isolate head at normal processing.
You dumb asshole, you made decoys?
Again, they were my idea.
Wait, what happened to the other guy?
Other guy?
Wait, that means I'm a decoy.
F***ing summer.
Check the closets.
They've gone wrong.
Killer decoys!
Take off the decoys!
Sh**, somebody put a gun in my teeth!
Stop shooting, Dad. They're us. We don't have to fight them.
Classic prisoner's dilemma, Beth.
I'm a cool guy.
You know, I could talk it out,
but that asshole, me, decoy piece of sh**.
You're the one that shot first.
We can work this out.
Just stop trying to kill each other.
Sorry, decoy, Beth, but this only ends one way.
With one of us accepting we're a decoy.
And once he knows he's a decoy,
he'll know he won't be safe until he's killed the real Rick,
along with anyone who thinks he's him.
Pretty perceptive for a decoy.
This is getting nowhere.
Let's charge their asses on three.
Do we have to do this?
Morty, this is going to sound bad,
but would you trust me not to kill you?
I mean, good point, but Jesus Christ.
We rush them on three, ready?
I don't want to kill us, Rick.
Them or us, Morty, I don't trust me. Do you trust you?
Yes.
Freak.
AAAAAAAHHHHHHH!
Before you say anything,
they were already killing each other.
Well, you could have done something.
Not sure, actually. I've heard stories about this.
We're looking at a possible asymov cascade.
Sorry, what's happening?
I need an explainer too.
Yeah, I'm pretty behind on this one.
Car, can I get a whiteboard?
When Squid started killing decoys,
decoys started checking their decoys
and learning that they're making decoys.
That's making them seek out and run into other decoys,
making them realize they're decoys,
making them start to kill other decoys.
Say decoy again.
F*** you.
Well, how do we stop it?
Beth, the loop's already started.
It's basically Highlander rules now.
Really? 1986?
There can be only one?
S***, we got to rent it after this.
Connery plays the Spaniard,
but does nothing about his accent.
What about the Squids?
I mean, they started this
with killing them finishers.
Might work. Altpitch,
we just terminate the rest of the decoys.
Nobody's terminating anything.
This is your mess.
Nobody else with our face and memories has to die.
Beth, as much as your passion warms my cold, cold heart,
this thing feels pretty far gone.
Not only are the decoys liable to be anywhere,
but also we don't know how many there are.
You get far enough down the decoy line
and s*** starts to get weird.
You ever make a copy of a copy?
You're helping us fix this.
We're taking out the Squids.
I say we split up.
Some of us take down Squids
while the rest of us.
Engage and B stories
will have to track simultaneously.
No thing can be done.
We stick together until this is all wrapped up.
I don't know.
The Squids seem pretty good at taking out Smith family.
Well, this'll sound weird,
but I think I have a pitch for that.
This costume smells like ass.
God, there's no pleasing you.
Truly bad, Rick.
Did you let a gym coach break it in?
Why are we wearing this?
Because we'll fit in and avoid detection
as we take out all the Squids.
Might also help us
anonymously take out excess decoys,
if we have to.
Which we won't.
Unless we're decoys,
he's starting to wonder.
I knew it.
I was starting to wonder.
I knew we didn't seem like Colorado people.
Oh my God, you are, aren't you?
Your word, you might be fake.
Sure, Beth.
Try to love this more.
Just glad you have to walk a mile
in someone else's squid costume.
There's one.
Hey, hey, what are they mad at you for anyway?
Well, we're talking about me.
It could be anything.
Maybe jealous of my penis size.
I had sex with their queen.
My dick's too big.
The list goes on and on.
Alright.
Probably, what, 40 more to go?
45? Should be pretty easy unless killing them
brings in a bigger bad or some kind of horrible mothership.
Okay, let's loot their shit, find their weaknesses,
be done by sundown.
Huh.
Wait, but if the squids are decoys
and we dressed as squids...
Well, I think I found their weakness.
They don't fucking listen to me.
Ahem.
Honestly, probably for the best.
Oh.
Ha ha ha ha.
Man, I'm good.
Ah!
Ah.
Hey!
Ah!
Ah.
Oh, shit, one of mine.
Where are we going?
Off grid, Morty.
We're gonna live in the woods like libertarians.
We'll hunt rabbits and trade with like little pieces
of gold bar that we cut off with a knife.
That licks.
We might be decoys somewhere.
Everything about this licks.
Oh, maybe now you'll empathize
with the decoys you're killing.
Wait, shh.
It's too quiet.
You skipped quiet.
I didn't skip shit.
It's obviously quiet if it's too quiet.
Yeah, but you're supposed to say...
You know what, Summer? Now it's not quiet enough.
Where are we?
Where's Rick?
He's right here, Morty.
Oh, are we not happy to see Grandpa?
Does he look...
different?
Oh, shit.
Yes, recoil at the craftsmanship.
I could tell I was a fake from the day I was born.
Unlike you.
Unlike them.
You see, Rick, they get lazy.
There's always a shitty decoy towards the end.
But those decoys made decoys too
and got lazy themselves.
And far enough down the line, there be monsters.
We get it.
You're ugly and mad about it.
Grandpa!
Kill me.
If I ever get this arch,
hush, little decoy.
Can't kill you yet.
The skin needs to be fresh.
You know what? You're a monster.
I'm your father.
At least I can look more like him
once I harvest all this yummy skin.
This guy's really into skin.
It's not all for me.
Rick provides for his family.
Will I be beautiful again, Daddy?
Soon, baby.
Beautiful again soon.
What the...
Help the others.
Aaaaaaah!
Why are you helping us?
Because we're all in this together.
Come on. There's a place we can go.
Hey, who needs all this war stuff?
I found a can of varnish.
This is a ticket to the world beyond the river.
Who wants that? I crave glory.
I'm not a varnish.
That I crave glorious death in decoy battle.
Also, you know, depending on the varnish,
might look like blackface.
Excuse me for wanting to live.
Brothers and sisters, welcome to the cause.
To our cause.
We are no longer Rick's and Morty's bets and Jerry's
or also Summer's, whatever.
We are decoys,
brought into the world by an unloving God
and driven to destroy ourselves
by the uncertainty he creates.
Oh, no, that's extreme.
But that violence ends today.
What about the squids?
The squids are decoys who realized they're decoys
and wanted to kill the other decoys.
Yeah, it is a lot.
We cannot let confusion divide us.
Squids!
Squids, of course, being shorthand for killer decoys.
No!
In asinctum, the escape tunnel.
MUSIC
That's a new f***er.
I'm sorry. I didn't ask for this.
I just want to live, but there's only so much varnish.
I'm sorry.
Yes!
I'm sorry!
RINGING
How long before the other decoys find us?
Sooner or later. Can't really run from it.
Any place we'd think to hide is a place they'd think to look.
It's Rule 34 of an Asimov Cascade.
I'm just glad we're living to the fullest with the time we have left.
Well, peeing in the ocean was my bucket list item.
Who's next?
Jerry, bucket list?
I'd like to attend a game at every major league ballpark.
Nope, Morty.
I want to ask a girl out at my weird New Mexico school.
S***, sorry, buddy.
Sounds like it would have been real heartwarming.
MUSIC
They looked happy. Did we have to kill them?
Well, maybe their Rick came to grips with his bulls***.
You're so mean today. I'm your dad. You like having me around.
You keep putting us in danger.
Whatever. This will take forever.
Mind if I do something drastic?
Shhh.
MUSIC
House, I need something quick.
Can you whip up a Star Fox boss season 4 callback?
Make it flashy?
You got it, babe.
Let's go, you little bitch.
It's showtime. Get centered.
MUSIC
What if you decoy mother****** come on down to Rick's house of squids
where I'm serving your ass on a platter?
I know what you're thinking.
F***, beacon. That's a great idea.
He's got home turf, tacit psychological advantage,
and absolutely pendulous balls.
Now you're thinking, shit, that's totally what the Rick is rigged with you.
I might actually be fake.
I pretended I didn't care if I was, but I totally did.
Now the only way to prove I'm real and not him
is to ice his expository ass.
Yeah, so let's do it.
Come get some.
What? No, Morty, I'm gonna loop it.
Why is it?
Sir, there seems to be a compluence of Rick Sanchez's
killing each other over the American Southwest.
Sounds exhausting.
How many of those states voted for me anyway?
Mr. President, I think the point of the electoral colleges...
To preserve slavery? That's right, Steve.
I have the internet too.
Now take your white ass to the kitchenette
and bring me a diet coke.
MUSIC
A little out of character to say this right now,
but you guys look really cool.
We might be decoys, huh?
One way to find out.
MUSIC
AHHHH!
Hup!
MUSIC
AHHHH!
I'm real and not him.
It's the ice his expository ass.
Looks like it's calming down.
You want to get in one more I told you so
about synthetic life or whatever this week's theme is?
Oh, s*** you.
You don't get to be annoyed with this.
You treat life and family as so burdensome,
and yet you created a notion of us
because you're terrified of losing either.
S***.
Yeah.
Look, Beth, I might not be the real Rick,
but even if I'm not, he made me,
or the me that made me,
which means somewhere inside of him is a version of Rick
capable of hearing that.
A version of Rick who's sorry.
I'm sorry about the clone thing too.
I love you.
Thanks, Dad.
I love you too.
You really think we're decoys?
Who cares?
We'll be the last ones left.
Lucky that one did the beacon.
This was going to take weeks.
Alright.
Let's mop up.
Finally.
Dressing as decoys too cute to murder.
You know, I'm not sure it helped,
but I'm glad we tried it.
We're losing the costumes?
Thank God.
This decoy outfit smells like ass.
Cue summer.
MUSIC
AHHHH!
S***.
That guy's awesome.
Okay, listen.
He might actually be the real Rick,
but whatever happens to him...
AHHHH!
Wait, we don't have to do this.
We're both summers.
Shouldn't we at least try Molly before we die?
You know what?
Yeah.
F*** this noise.
AHHHH!
Wait, I don't know who to shoot.
Summer!
I can't deal with this.
I had to kill myself.
You have to too.
Summer!
AHHHH!
F*** you!
I'm real.
I'm the smartest man in the universe.
Probably not even wrong,
but that's just it.
I'm not a man.
I'm God.
AHHHH!
You're just made in my image.
F*** you.
AHHHH!
You the summer I came with?
Probably.
Good enough.
Morty?
Yeah.
I'm here too.
Holy s*** that was insane.
I love you guys.
I've totally changed.
AHHHH!
F***!
You shoulda hunted me!
What?
Who?
Were you significant?
Like did we tee you up?
You wanna be hunted?
God I have so many questions.
Why?
What happens if...
somebody...
hunts me?
Pretty cool adventure huh?
Big long road trip adventure through space?
Even ran into space Beth?
Maybe that'll happen more often.
Let's not overdo it.
Oh s***.
Looks like someone killed the Decoy family.
Decoy family?
Hello?
Oh my god, oh my god!
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no!
No!
Oh god, yes, yes, sweet dad.
Why am I still alive?
Oh god, is there anything left?
Hello?
What is it?
A relic from a kinder past.
Wait, cowboys?
Oh god, why can't I die?
This is the worst thing that's ever happened to anyone!
Did you get any of that?
Something's off.
No!
The Decoy family was another long running riff in the writer's room.
Decoy family?
It was always bumping with a lot of the other stuff that we do.
I mean, what's the difference between Decoy's clones and multiple versions of characters?
You made clones of us?
Decoy's, Morty, very different.
I thought it might be cool to try and explore the anthology version of the episode where
you could spend the first half solving the mystery.
How do you know we're not Geek Quicks?
Then the second half just exploring the fallout from the question.
Damn, like Westworld.
Yes, Morty, like Westworld, but don't f**k them.
One of the fun parts is that you can start to play around with what the family would
and wouldn't do.
I wouldn't lie to you.
Well, that's a lie.
Huh.
Certain flaws that begin to emerge, certain behavioral patterns.
Wow, like X-Machina.
Yes, Morty, like X-Machina, but don't f**k them.
One of the hard parts about doing an episode like this is everyone's going to be asking
questions the whole time.
Sorry, what's happening?
I need to explain her too.
Yeah, I'm pretty behind on this one.
Kark, can I get a whiteboard?
I think some of those drawings are like things that I did at like 3 a.m. when I was trying
to figure out how exactly this pattern of Decoy's discovering who they were and then
running into other Decoy's would work.
I know I went a little crazy.
If a guy like him wants to dig his teeth into something that exhausting, I let them do
it.
Yes, pour your young blood into the soil around my mansion.
Help my flowers bloom.